The majority of the Corps, I think it would have been kind of a split type situation.
I don't think it would have been like one way or another that I think the integration of black students in the school, I think that would have flown.
I don't think that would have been a problem.
Females in the school, that may have been a little different situation.
That could have had a little harder role to swallow.
The other one, a non-compulsory corps, I think we saw it coming.
I mean, we knew it had to happen.
I mean, there wasn't any other way.
I mean, the school had to change in some way or another, and that was the way to do it.
Do you by chance remember a gathering in the MSC hallway at the top of the stairway?
on the day before the board, then we called it the board of directors.
They're going to have a meeting to vote on this.
And there was an old guy from the class of 99 or something who was going to try to lead the argument against all these changes, and he asked for the senior class leaders to join him at that.
I don't recall that.
And I could have been gone already because that was, see the study was completed and I don't think they voted on it at the time that I was studying.
It might have been the next year.
Yeah.
I remember the one guy, the old guy that was always here was Pinky.
And I mean he worked for the student center and he was there and he was quite a fellow.
You know everybody knew him and it was like Lupo.
Everybody knew Lupo.
Did you ever need to borrow money from Lupo?
No.
No, never did.
Because he was always trustworthy, wasn't he?
Oh, yeah.
And he always helped you.
Oh, yes.
He was always known to do that.
And our first year old practice every year, he would be there waiting for us.
He'd be up there with the other leaders.
And, of course, he got a plug-in for his place, you know.
And everybody would go to Lupo's, you know.
Everybody would go to Lupo's, you know.
The MSC, what role did it play in student lives?
I think it was an important role for us because we had no other place to go.
It was the same as Guyon Hall I think played an important role for us.
Athletics played a very important role.
I mean it was like a treat, you know, because football games, you know, and basketball, I mean Charlie Raleigh would be full, you know.
And so those were very important.
The student center, I spent a lot of time in there studying, I spent a lot of time in there shooting the bull with my buddies, drinking coffee, those kind of things.
Did you get involved in any MSC?
Activities?
Didn't have that many.
I was more involved like in the marketing society, and I was involved with the San Antonio NM Club.
What did the San Antonio A&M Club do?
The San Antonio A&M Club, when you start at the school year you'd go out and find all the students that came in from San Antonio and you'd go and recruit them to join the San Antonio A&M Club.
And we would meet once a month.
And the idea behind it is that we'd keep
contact with home, keep contact with the buddies that were there because if they knew you were from San Antonio, they would drop handles with you and all that kind of stuff.
You'd have meetings of what's going on, how we could help each other, planning activities like a Christmas party.
We had a Christmas party back in San Antonio.
end of the year party and those kind of things.
And we had, San Antonio was fortunate enough, they had Aggie Club there, the Aggie San Antonio NEM Club.
So we were always allowed to use that.
So we would, during Christmas they'd give us one night that we could use it.
And we'd go there and they would have maybe a band and food and it would be a social event.
And you'd arrange travel.
Oh yeah.
Actually the travel didn't necessarily have to be with people from San Antonio.
If you, and maybe they weren't members, but you would always, they had a place you could post that you needed a ride.
But if you knew somebody from San Antonio that was going home, yeah, that would be, that would be to an advantage.
You'd give them a buck going, a buck coming, first guess.
And that was the way it worked.
Did you ever get sick and go to the campus hospital?
Oh yes, my sophomore year.
Describe that.
They had a flu epidemic.
And I mean we were all falling like flies.
And it was like Monday I think it was, maybe a Tuesday.
I was real sick.
I had a real high temperature.
I don't remember what the temperature was.
And actually freshmen were the ones that helped me.
Freshmen that were next to my hole I was banging on the wall.
They came over, and I asked him if they had any aspirin or something.
He's trying to be nice.
So he said, sir, you're burning up, sir.
Maybe we should get you to the campus hospital.
So they did.
They took me over there.
And the doctor put me in the hospital.
I mean, the beds were all, I mean, it was full.
And it wasn't bad.
I mean, it's not as bad as everybody claimed it was, you know.
I thought they treated us fairly well.
They kept you clean.
They made sure you got fed.
And I remember it was Thursday night, and I told the
the doctor, I need to be out of here tomorrow because I have a big test in marketing and that prof will take, we cannot have any absences.
He has told us that if we miss one of his major quizzes that he'll make us write a term paper that will be harder than a thesis and I'm not in a position to do that.
So I need to get out of here tomorrow and take that test."
He says, well are you ready for it?
And I said, sir, whether I'm ready for it or not I have to do it.
So these freshmen brought me some old quizzes.
And so that Thursday night my temperature was down.
He said, well I'll tell you what, I'm going to let you out, and it was raining.
He said, but you make sure you have your helmet liner, and we didn't call it helmet liner.
They call it Pispat.
And your poncho and your fatigues, the uniform that you need to wear tomorrow, and you can go take the test and either you come back here or you go home.
So I'll go home.
So he says, okay, when you check out you're going to sign this and you're going to tell us so you're going to go.
So anyway I signed out.
and I go to the business library, and I'm sitting there, and I'm reading all these old tests.
And then my roommate came in, and he had been by the hospital to see me, and he said, look, well, actually one of my roommates was another business major.
He came by and said, look, study these right here real quick.
He says, you've got about an hour and a half.
You know, you probably hadn't seen it.
So I studied these tests and I said, oh man, I'm going to go in there, I'm going to really bust this one.
So I go in there and behold, God was looking out for me.
I sit down and he gives us a test and it was almost identical to one of the ones that I had looked at that my other sophomore buddy had brought to me from the dorm.
And I mean almost, almost.
And I said, oh man, thank you God.
And so anyway, yeah, that was my experience there.
I had a flu.
Who was the doctor?
Who was the head?
Oh God, I don't know.
I could not tell you.
Then Guyon Hall, what did y'all, what all went on happened at Guyon Hall?
Oh Guyon Hall was our weekend movies.
three or four movies during the night.
We'd go over there and buy popcorn, soft drinks, sit there and watch three or four movies in the evening.
On Saturdays normally was the night that we would go over there.
Not much with a date.
No, no, no, not at all.
And you all made noise during the movie, is that right?
Oh yeah, we raise hell and make remarks about it.
By and large, was it almost all students?
Oh yes, yes, I'd say the majority were all, and the majority of those were all core, core students, and Guyon Hall was, that was one of our meeting halls for the inclement weather drill where they would take us to if we had
They would show these movies on how great the Air Force was and that kind of stuff.
I remember a certain incident when we were seniors.
The executive officer of Squadron 7, I was the executive officer of Squadron 2.
We lived next door to each other.
We were both from San Antonio.
He used to ride with me all the time back to San Antonio.
So it was raining, and we go in there, and I told him, Henry, let's do this.
Once they turned the lights out, because the guy in the hall had like these curtains and like openings, and so I told him, once they turned the lights out,
I'm going to sit close to where the opening is, crawl over the wall, go out and sneak out the side door, and we can get out of here.
We don't watch this stuff."
He said, that's a good idea.
So they marched our office over there.
So I'm sitting there, and so all of a sudden I just crawl over, go to the door, open the door slightly, trying not to get any light in there.
And so I get out, and then all of a sudden he's behind me, and he opens the damn door.
And, of course, the Bulls saw it.
So we're running down the Guyon Hall, which was where Rudder Tower was, across to the dorm area, to the quad over there where we lived.
And so I hear one of the officer Bulls, Captain Allen.
I remember he was an Air Force Academy graduate.
Oh, man, what a guy.
Anyway.
I ran actually into my dorm and he's running behind me and instead of running into the end of the hall I ran around and so they couldn't see what dorm I went into.
And he did the same thing.
So I go into my room, my room was right on the corner, and so I go to my room and I heard them.
I know they went in somewhere in here.
They're looking for us.
So I hide in the closet and I'm waiting and waiting and waiting until I hear no noise.
What my buddy did, he went upstairs to his room and he let this door open.
Uh-oh.
And he turned on his radio.
So he was changing clothes.
So he caught it.
So they let him go.
They said, okay, Monday you come over to Trigon and we'll take care of you.
So, okay, Monday, Henry goes over to the Trigon and they campused him for the rest of the semester.
He had bull ring every weekend.
And this was in the spring.
And it was like April.
So we only had about a month to go.
So we're seniors, keep in mind.
So we started getting those April showers and the rains and all that kind of stuff.
We'd go to the mess hall and
And I remember Henry sitting there in the mess hall, and he tells the bull that was in charge of bullring, he tells him, sir, are we going to have bullring today?
And he'd say it was right after drill.
He says, yes, bring your galoshers.
So he drilled every weekend, the weekend of the senior ring dance.
He had to go.
He couldn't get out.
They made him go.
Probably the only damn senior that was there.
So we had dates for the senior ring dance.
And so we're all, we had three girls that came up from San Antonio and they all were staying at
at a hotel.
We didn't have many hotels here, but we had made the reservation way ahead of time.
But anyway, so he's out there drilling and we're over there at the hotel having a good time, you know, swimming and all that kind of stuff.
And so he's like, I can't believe this, you know.
So anyway, that was one of the stories I guess.
And to this day I still see him every once in a while.
Do you remember any famous people coming to Guyon Hall to speak or performers?
We had this orchestra that came.
What's the name?
They're not even in existence anymore.
They're old.
Guy Lombardo?
It was something like that.
Dorsey Brothers?
No, it wasn't Dorsey.
I think Bob Hope was here.
Bob Hope?
Yeah.
I'm trying to remember, I can't remember the name of the orchestra.
I mean everybody, I didn't go to it, but it was a big event.
During your four years, what about the religious activities on or around the campus?
That's pretty much on your own.
But I used to go to church every Sunday.
Where did you go?
At St.
Mary's.
Northgate?
Yeah, Northgate.
I used to walk there every Sunday morning.
That was kind of my, I guess, chill out time.
I've always been an early riser.
Who would be, the congregation at the mass, would they be almost all students or were there lots of local residents?
Mostly students.
There was local residents, but there was a mixture of
Corps people, civilian students, and probably residents too, but a lot of Corps, a lot of Corps.
Was there a Sunday night activity?
Every once in a while they would have it, not as a standard.
They would have some functions.
The Newman Club, they had the Newman Club, and that was another organization I was a member of, the Newman Club.
Where did it meet?
They had a little hall there that was across the street from the church, and I think that's probably either still there or they tore it down or built it up or whatever.
And they've got a splendid week.
Yeah.
Oh, they built that one up a couple of years ago, yeah.
Religious Emphasis Week, do you remember that?
yeah yeah i remember that and there were there were events for catholics yes yes we we had uh we had events uh uh i guess being that like i think you know this is the truth in the four years that i was here i don't think i missed going to mass more than once or twice every sunday i would make sure and i went to that it was either the 8 30 or nine o'clock mess i can't remember but i would get up and you had to wear a uniform you couldn't do it any other way i mean they wouldn't they didn't allow you
If you were a freshman, sophomore, you wore a uniform everywhere.
Even a junior, a junior had to wear his uniform everywhere.
Seniors had a little more flexibility.
They could go places without, in civilian clothes, but.
So that you went to Mass here as regularly or even more regularly than you had at home?
No, no, because I would do the same thing at home.
You wouldn't, okay.
Because I went to Central Catholic, yeah, yeah.
So as regular, okay.
Yeah.
Did the typical Aggie on campus go to?
I'd say it was split, maybe 50-50.
My roommate was a Presbyterian.
He went to church every Sunday too.
Sometimes we'd walk together.
And as long as he, he got married when we were at the end of our junior year.
And going into our senior year, he got married and married a girl from Texas.
And so anyway, but we used to, we used to, I'd say about half the guys would go.
The other half, probably not.
And the student body, there was a wide diversity of religious groups.
Oh yeah, yeah.
Were there any international students that you remember?
Very few.
There were some.
From where?
Central America, South America, Mexico.
And the reason I can testify to this, when I was, after I took those two years of Spanish, I thought, man, I'm pretty hot on this stuff, man, I'm really going.
They had a public speaking course in Spanish.
And so I was a junior, I think I was a senior already, maybe I was a senior already.
Took it as an elective.
And I'll go into the classroom, and there are 18 people in the classroom.
It's a one-hour public speaking course.
Met twice a week.
And there were 16 students in there, and they were all from either Mexico, Central America, or South America.
And there was one Anglo and myself.
And I said, and so the Anglo guy sits next to me and I look at him and I said, I think we're going to be in trouble.
And I had never, for a one hour course, I had never studied as hard as I did because I had to spend a lot of time.
But the prof did, he came in and he said, okay this is a public speaking course in Spanish, you guys are already well aware of where you're at.
So anyway what he did, he gave us assignments.
Everybody had a turn.
And so you did your presentation and you go to the lab and
and review it to see how well you did and then he would grade you.
And so, yeah.
The student body in general were Texans?
I'd say the majority, yes.
Were they?
We had some from New York that I can remember.
California, my first sergeant from my freshman year was Bob Lee from Anaheim, California.
And then we had some students from Mexico that were in the Corps.
Very few, but we had some.
And probably because of affiliation with the families and that type of situation, that's why they were in the Corps.
Were they, would the general student body urban or rural?
I think a lot of rural.
A lot of them from small towns, you know, Gladewater, where the hell is that at?
Rich and poor.
Rich and poor?
Oh yeah.
Yeah, I think you've got to make sure, yeah.
Rich and poor.
Some kids that maybe their father had passed away and they were kind of existing on the Social Security they were getting, those kind of things would happen, yeah.
Do you remember going to
Silver Taps the first time?
Yes.
What was it like?
Well, it was kind of like, okay, they had it there at the academic building.
It's the same place I think they still have it.
And it's kind of like you don't know what to expect.
You're just told that
you had an individual that passed away and so the instructions, they gave you the instructions, being a freshman, you know, you really didn't know.
So they said, and we will enforce this.
So at 10.30 at the end of the call of the quarters you would turn out all the lights and you would be able, that's the only time they'd allow you to go into civilian clothes.
And you'd go over to the academic building, in front of the academic building, and they'd have a ceremony.
It was kind of like
you kind of like, that kind of made you feel like, God, you know, this is something that probably never experienced again in my life.
This is like being, to me, like being in
in the battlefield, you know, where one of your comrades dies and you're there to honor him.
That's a feeling you had and you bonded.
You know, everybody was very quiet going and no one spoke.
And when it was over and no one spoke, you went back to the dorm.
If you had called the quarters, I mean, if you wanted to stay up late to study, then you had to take a blanket, put it over your
over your window, and you could stay up as late as you wanted to to study, but that blanket stayed there all night until the next morning.
And you couldn't have any light at all during that period of time from the time they had it until the next morning.
And there were never any pranks or bull about silver taps?
Oh, no.
That was serious business.
Anybody would do anything out of, they'd probably die there because they'd be the next one.
Do you remember Bonfire as a fish?
Oh yes, yes.
What did you do?
It was a good experience.
What was your task?
Our assignment was to work out in the cutting area.
Do you remember where it was?
Oh God, it was out at Wellburn Road, out maybe 10 miles or whatever in the cutting area that they had.
And what we did is
our outfit was assigned to, of course, cutting trees, bringing them back to the stacking area when we throw them on these trailers.
But the idea behind it was, well, that was what was good about it, and that's where we lost it, is that upperclassmen looked out for underclassmen.
And your duty was X, and that was it.
A junior had privilege of
cutting a tree with an ax or with electric equipment or in the senior, actually, all they did was supervise.
You know, they made sure that everybody was in good shape, made sure nobody got hurt.
It was not a, what would you call it, it was a serious thing.
It was a serious thing.
About how long, in terms of days and weeks, about how long did you all work on it?
About a month before we'd start working on it.
And they'd start, you know, any spare time you had, you'd come back to the dorm.
Now, that's one time you had to do one.
Any spare time you had, you'd come back to the dorm, put on your fatigues, and they'd take you out to the cutting area, or they'd keep you out in the area where they were putting the logs up.
But there was only certain outfits that were authorized to deal with stacking the
setting up the bonfire, or engineering.
There was an engineering office, and they did, I mean, they were very careful about that.
You as a person, you didn't have any involvement in that.
I mean, not even as a senior, because I wasn't in that type of an office, but... It was held on drill field?
It was behind Duncan.
Oh, behind Duncan.
Behind Duncan, yeah.
Okay.
And was it one, was it one... It was one tier.
One tier.
Yeah, yeah.
I can't recall that we did the wedding cake type deal.
And no sabotage, no attempts?
Well we used to have to guard it 24 hours.
But what happened is we split the time, our outfit I think.
In the four years that I was there maybe we had one night for, and it was a short period of time.
It could be two hours or three hours and that was it.
It was a time that you sat down and the upperclassmen would sit there, and it was a freshman privilege to tell dirty jokes, so the freshmen had to come to guard the bonfire with the upperclassmen, and they had to be prepared to tell dirty jokes.
So they'd tell you, okay, it's your turn, Fish Garcia, and you'd get up and you'd have to tell a dirty joke.
And that's how we passed the time.
You went to football games regularly and basketball regularly.
I had to go to every football game.
That was a requirement.
You had to go.
There was no excuse for that.
And A&M wasn't winning many games then.
No, we didn't win very many.
Who were the star athletes that you all admired, cheered for most loudly?
It wasn't basketball, Broussard, yeah.
And I can't really remember a lot of the other ones.
Football didn't win much.
No we didn't win much so it really didn't make any difference who it was.
What did you and your buddies think of Yale leaders?
Was that a big deal to be a Yale leader?
Not as big as it is today.
I mean they really have, a Yale leader was
It was just another thing that you did, you know, but it wasn't like, today they have, they give it a lot more presence, and probably because the student body's a lot bigger.
Did you all have a high respect for the band?
The band?
Never.
Did you all have any nicknames for the band?
Who were the most respected student leader, what were the most respected student leader positions?
The corps commander, of course.
You know, that was in staff people, people on staffs.
Was there even a student body president there?
Yes.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Well, those were mostly all Corps people.
They had a council that was formed.
There was a senior council, two of them, that if the student was in a problem situation that he was, you know, he had to go before that council and they would
they would come out with a finding on it.
A person could get kicked out of school or whatever.
They would lead that, but those were the different types of groups that we had.
There was a president, no doubt, and a vice president, but they weren't like
like you really went out and did a lot of politicking to get there.
Pretty much you knew who it was going to be.
Now the head yell leader was always big.
It always has been.
I mean head yell leader automatically was on core staff back then.
And so that was the only thing that I can remember that the head Yale leader was always, was big time, you know.
The other Yale leaders were mostly, and it's weird because back then I think we had reserved a spot for a civilian student.
So you had X number of Yale leaders that were core and then one spot was reserved for a civilian student.
They used to have football games between the military and the civilian, which they used to call the maroon and white game.
And that was an annual event where they'd go out and work out with the football pads and all that, and so many people would try out for it, and then they'd go ahead and have their annual game.
But I think they did away with that by the time I was a senior.
Seeing cadets, did you all have a higher respect for them?
Well, not, we'd always have something, we'd call them something that was not really nice enough.
But they were a good group, you know, and they were recognized pretty well by everybody.
Were you aware that there were any secret fraternities?
No.
I had heard that there were some movements of some secret fraternities that were like
your Nazi type operations, but never in our outfits, none of the outfits that I was around were like that.
I couldn't see that really happening because everybody was, you know, pretty close to each other, you know.
And so, no, no, there wasn't anything like that.
When you and your buddies went out to have a good time at the Clay Pits out by the river,
Where did people, and was it normally beer that was consumed?
Beer, that was all they had.
Did people get drunk?
Not really.
I mean they wouldn't buy like, it's not like I see students today that
They would, you know, they'd buy tons of stuff, you know, and I mean they'd drink until they drop, you know, and no.
No they would only, let's see, we had a keg of beer, maybe two kegs of beer, you have 40, 50, I don't know, actually more than I would say, 60 to 70 cadets in the outfit.
That's not going to go very far.
And it was almost male only?
It's all male, yeah.
And did you all go skinny dipping?
Do you any swimming?
No, we'd pull some pranks off and maybe throw people in the river and that kind of stuff.
But nothing, because it was always in the evening so they were pretty careful.
The upperclassmen, you know,
Mainly the seniors and the juniors would always look out.
They felt responsible.
They were very responsible about those things.
And you caught a ride out there?
Yeah.
We'd have to get a ride and one of the, whoever had cars there would get a ride from the people in our outfit.
Friday nights, Saturday nights?
Normally Friday nights.
It was before football games normally.
Before Yale practice we'd go out there and come back and go to midnight Yale practice.
Now if somebody was wanting to have a big
Saturday night in Bryan College Station, where did they go?
There weren't really any places to go.
Outside of the movie houses and really you couldn't
I remember some of my friends, well, some of my buddies from San Antonio were all Mexican-American.
We decided we were going to go to the VFW.
Figured that was, supposedly we heard that was mostly all Hispanics, and they really didn't accept us very well.
So we left, so we weren't really accepted.
And Lulax, really the same thing.
I mean, it was weird because I guess they thought that because we were going to college that
Of course that's changed over the years, but it was kind of weird.
Did many Aggies go to Whiskey Bridge?
Oh yeah, the one up there going back toward Snook.
Yeah, that was a popular place.
Was there any other place close by to buy whiskey?
Not that I remember.
That's a place that everybody would go to and buy it over there.
Did anybody, did you ever hear any Aggies talk about going to the chicken ranch at LaGrange?
Oh yeah.
Is that right?
Yeah, I remember mainly during fish week when you had fish freshmen, the upperclassmen, like the seniors, would have their, I guess, pilgrimage over there.
And normally what I remember going with them as freshmen, they just told me, you're coming with us, and they took me.
I was driving, because they were having a good time.
So they'd take me over there.
I went to the chicken ranch a couple of times.
And so, yeah, we went over there, and I saw what was going on there.
It was kind of funny.
It's not as elaborate as people talk about it.
It was just an old house.